StreamingASR/README.md, before:

# Streaming Speech Recognition on Android with Emformer-RNNT-based Model

## Introduction

In the Speech Recognition Android demo app, we showed how to use the [wav2vec 2.0](https://github.com/pytorch/fairseq/tree/master/examples/wav2vec) model on an Android demo app to perform non-continuous speech recognition. Here we're going one step further, using a torchaudio [Emformer-RNNT-based ASR](https://pytorch.org/audio/main/prototype.pipelines.html#torchaudio.prototype.pipelines.EMFORMER_RNNT_BASE_LIBRISPEECH) model in Android to perform streaming speech recognition.

## Prerequisites

* PyTorch 1.11 nightly and torchaudio 0.11 nightly (Optional)
* Python 3.8 (Optional)
* Android Pytorch library org.pytorch:pytorch_android_lite:1.10.0
* Android Studio 4.0.1 or later

## Quick Start

### 1. Get the Repo

Simply run the commands below:

```
git clone https://github.com/pytorch/android-demo-app
cd android-demo-app/StreamingASR
```

If you don't have PyTorch 1.11 nightly and torchaudio 0.11 nightly installed or want to have a quick try of the demo app, you can download the optimized scripted model file [streaming_asr.ptl](), then drag and drop it to the `app/src/main/assets` folder inside  `android-demo-app/StreamingASR`, and continue to Step 3.

### 2. Prepare the Model

To install PyTorch 1.11 and torchaudio 0.11 nightly, you can do something like this:

```
conda create -n torch_nightly python=3.8.5
conda activate torch_nightly
pip install -U --pre torch torchaudio -f https://download.pytorch.org/whl/nightly/cpu/torch_nightly.html
```

After that, run the following commands to test the streaming ASR works in your computer:

```
conda install pyaudio
python run_sasr.py
```

After you see:
```
Initializing model...
Initialization complete.
```
you can say something like "good afternoon happy new year", and you'll likely see the streaming recognition results `▁good ▁afternoon ▁happy ▁new ▁year` while you speak. Hit Ctrl-C to end.

To optimize and convert the model to the format that can run on Android, run the following commands:
```
mkdir -p StreamingASR/app/src/main/assets
python save_model_for_mobile.py
mv streaming_asr.ptl StreamingASR/app/src/main/assets
```

### 2. Build and run with Android Studio

Start Android Studio, open the project located in `android-demo-app/StreamingASR/StreamingASR`, build and run the app on an Android device. After the app runs, tap the Start button and start saying something. Some example recognition results are:

![](screenshot1.png)
![](screenshot2.png)
![](screenshot3.png)

## Librosa C++, Eigen, and JNI

Note that this demo uses a [C++ port](https://github.com/ewan-xu/LibrosaCpp/) of [Librosa](https://librosa.org), a popular audio processing library in Python, to perform the MelSpectrogram transform. In the Python script `run_sasr.py` above, the torchaudio's [MelSpectrogram](https://pytorch.org/audio/stable/transforms.html#melspectrogram) is used, but you can achieve the same transform result by replacing `spectrogram = transform(tensor).transpose(1, 0)`, line 46 of run_sasr.py with:
```
mel = librosa.feature.melspectrogram(np_array, sr=16000, n_fft=400, n_mels=80, hop_length=160)
spectrogram = torch.tensor(mel).transpose(1, 0)
```

Because torchaudio currently doesn't support fft on Android (see [here](https://github.com/pytorch/audio/issues/408)), using the Librosa C++ port and JNI (Java Native Interface) on Android makes the MelSpectrogram possible on Android. Furthermore, the Librosa C++ port requires [Eigen](https://eigen.tuxfamily.org/), a C++ template library for linear algebra, so both the port and the Eigen library are included in the demo app and built as JNI, using the `CMakeLists.txt` and `MainActivityJNI.cpp` in `StreamingASR/app/src/main/cpp`.

Commit message:

README, script and screenshots update

StreamingASR/README.md, after:

# Streaming Speech Recognition on Android with Emformer-RNNT-based Model

## Introduction

In the Speech Recognition Android [demo app](https://github.com/pytorch/android-demo-app/tree/master/SpeechRecognition), we showed how to use the [wav2vec 2.0](https://github.com/pytorch/fairseq/tree/master/examples/wav2vec) model on an Android demo app to perform non-continuous speech recognition. Here we're going one step further, using a torchaudio [Emformer-RNNT-based ASR](https://pytorch.org/audio/main/prototype.pipelines.html#torchaudio.prototype.pipelines.EMFORMER_RNNT_BASE_LIBRISPEECH) model in Android to perform streaming speech recognition.

## Prerequisites

* PyTorch 1.10.0 and torchaudio 0.10.0 or above (Optional)
* Python 3.8 (Optional)
* Android Pytorch library org.pytorch:pytorch_android_lite:1.10.0
* Android Studio 4.0.1 or later

## Quick Start

### 1. Get the Repo

Simply run the commands below:

```
git clone https://github.com/pytorch/android-demo-app
cd android-demo-app/StreamingASR
```

If you don't have PyTorch 1.10.1 nightly and torchaudio 0.11 nightly installed or want to have a quick try of the demo app, you can download the optimized scripted model file [streaming_asr.ptl](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1awT_1S6H5IXSOOqpFLmpeg0B-kQVWG2y/view?usp=sharing), then drag and drop it to the `app/src/main/assets` folder inside  `android-demo-app/StreamingASR`, and continue to Step 3.

### 2. Prepare the Model

To install PyTorch 1.10.1, torchaudio 0.10.1, and other required Python packages, do something like this:

```
conda create -n pt1.10.1 python=3.8.5
conda activate pt1.10
pip install torch torchaudio numpy pyaudio
```

Now download the [scripted streaming ASR model](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1_49DwHS_a3p3THGdHZj3TXmjNJj60AhP/view?usp=sharing) (the script to create the model will be published soon) to the `android-demo-app/StreamingASR` directory and run `python run_sasr.py` to test the streaming ASR:

After you see
```
Initializing model...
Initialization complete.
```
say something like "good afternoon happy new year", and you'll likely see the streaming recognition results `▁good ▁afternoon ▁happy ▁new ▁year` while you speak. Hit Ctrl-C to end.

To optimize and convert the model to the format that can run on Android, run the following commands:
```
mkdir -p StreamingASR/app/src/main/assets
python save_model_for_mobile.py
mv streaming_asr.ptl StreamingASR/app/src/main/assets
```

### 2. Build and run with Android Studio

Start Android Studio, open the project located in `android-demo-app/StreamingASR/StreamingASR`, build and run the app on an Android device. After the app runs, tap the Start button and start saying something. Some example recognition results are:

![](screenshot1.png)
![](screenshot2.png)
![](screenshot3.png)

## Librosa C++, Eigen, and JNI

Note that this demo uses a [C++ port](https://github.com/ewan-xu/LibrosaCpp/) of [Librosa](https://librosa.org), a popular audio processing library in Python, to perform the MelSpectrogram transform. In the Python script `run_sasr.py` above, the torchaudio's [MelSpectrogram](https://pytorch.org/audio/stable/transforms.html#melspectrogram) is used, but you can achieve the same transform result by replacing `spectrogram = transform(tensor).transpose(1, 0)`, line 46 of run_sasr.py with:
```
mel = librosa.feature.melspectrogram(np_array, sr=16000, n_fft=400, n_mels=80, hop_length=160)
spectrogram = torch.tensor(mel).transpose(1, 0)
```

Because torchaudio currently doesn't support fft on Android (see [here](https://github.com/pytorch/audio/issues/408)), using the Librosa C++ port and [JNI](https://developer.android.com/training/articles/perf-jni) (Java Native Interface) on Android makes the MelSpectrogram possible on Android. Furthermore, the Librosa C++ port requires [Eigen](https://eigen.tuxfamily.org/), a C++ template library for linear algebra, so both the port and the Eigen library are included in the demo app and built as JNI, using the `CMakeLists.txt` and `MainActivityJNI.cpp` in `StreamingASR/app/src/main/cpp`.
